employees/operations/communication.md, before:

# Communication, meetings, and regular rituals

Rumors is an open-plan studio. We like to talk. We turn our chairs around a lot, we like the way face-to-face conversation brings about ideas. You’re welcome to opt out with headphones; someone may bug you in Slack to take them off.

## Hours

The studio is open Monday through Friday, 9am to 5pm. Daily standup begins at 9:30am. Within business hours we offer structured flexibility, which means that you can do things like:

- Work from another location.
- Shift your daily hours to avoid a bad commute, or break up the day into productive chunks.
- Step away from your work in micro-increments of 1-3 hours to accommodate the unexpected.

Notify your co-workers on Slack if you’ll be working remotely for the day, ideally the day before or in the morning. There’s no limit to the number of times you can work remotely — coordinate with co-workers and be sure to check the impact your physical absence may have.

Let us know in advance if you won’t be available during business hours, and put it in the calendar. Sometimes emergencies arise. Let everyone know over Slack as soon as you know your schedule.

## Daily standup

Every day at 9:30am we meet for a 10-15 minute discussion of project progress. We answer these questions:

- What did you do yesterday?
- What are you planning to do today?
- Is anything blocking you?

It’s not a status meeting — we don’t need all the details. And it’s not the time to argue, demo, or solve problems. Log issues or questions and move on. Go person to person, one at a time.

## Call-free Wednesdays

We observe call-free Wednesdays, which means that we keep Wednesdays free of client calls, video chats, and meetings in the studio. That leaves us with a full midweek day for heads-down work.

## Rumors Fridays

The first Friday of every month is “investment time,” a concept borrowed from [Thoughtbot](https://thoughtbot.com/). We set aside at least half this day for professional development, studio operations, planning, and culture, internal projects, field trips, and community participation. We meet quarterly on a Rumors Friday to discuss progress toward internal projects and goals.

## Weekly status

Every Monday we discuss the status of each of our projects in a bit more detail, project by project. Because we typically work on multiple projects at once, our weekly status meeting helps us plan out when to most effectively work on what.

- What are we collectively working on this week?
- What’s coming up in the next 10 days?
- Are there any fires to put out?

This is also a good time to share studio news, celebrate high points or grumble about challenges, and to show work or share inspiration.

## Meetings

We use Skype, Google Hangouts, or Slack calls for remote meetings. It depends on the client. Meetings should be under an hour and should have a purpose and an agenda, even a simple one. Send a calendar invite for meetings. If someone is working remotely, conduct standup on a Slack call.

## Calendar

Every three weeks or so we block out four to six weeks of work at a high level, project by project, on the big calendar we keep on the whiteboard. Meetings and such go into the shared Google calendar.

## Slack

We use Slack as an internal communication tool to chat about projects, studio news, and other stuff.

Star client channels to add them to an alpha-sorted list at the top of the sidebar. Other channels, like #music and #plants, live in a stack below.

At the onset of a project we'll set up a channel for that client. (Or un-archive a channel if we’ve worked with them previously.) Here are some of the ways we use client channels in Slack:

- Talk specifically about project details — hash out questions, report on progress, note client communication
- Ask for help or feedback on a technical detail
- Post links to relevant documentation, notes, something you want someone to review
- Note small updates or quick changes to the project (then file in GitHub issues)

Don’t `@` mention other coworkers outside of working hours. If someone shares something off hours, there is no expectation that you will respond.

## Email

Email can take up a lot of time. We use it to communicate with clients, rarely internally. Unless it is an emergency, we respond to client communication within a day or two — not instantaneously.

[← Back to the Handbook](../README.md)

Commit message:

organize communication, add sprint planning note

employees/operations/communication.md, after:

# Communication, meetings, and regular rituals

Rumors is an open-plan studio. We like to talk. We turn our chairs around a lot, we like the way face-to-face conversation brings about ideas. You’re welcome to opt out with headphones; someone may bug you in Slack to take them off.

## Hours

The studio is open Monday through Friday, 9am to 5pm. Daily standup begins at 9:30am. Within business hours we offer structured flexibility, which means that you can do things like:

- Work from another location.
- Shift your daily hours to avoid a bad commute, or break up the day into productive chunks.
- Step away from your work in micro-increments of 1-3 hours to accommodate the unexpected.

Notify your co-workers on Slack if you’ll be working remotely for the day, ideally the day before or in the morning. There’s no limit to the number of times you can work remotely — coordinate with co-workers and be sure to check the impact your physical absence may have.

Let us know in advance if you won’t be available during business hours, and put it in the calendar. Sometimes emergencies arise. Let everyone know over Slack as soon as you know your schedule.

## Daily standup

Every day at 9:30am we meet for a 10-15 minute discussion of project progress. We answer these questions:

- What did you do yesterday?
- What are you planning to do today?
- Is anything blocking you?

It’s not a status meeting and it’s not the time to argue, demo, or solve problems. Log issues or questions and move on. Go person to person, one at a time.

## Weekly status

Every Monday we discuss the status of each of our projects in a bit more detail, project by project. Because we typically work on multiple projects at once, our weekly status meeting helps us plan out when to most effectively work on what.

- What are we collectively working on this week?
- What’s coming up in the next 10 days?
- Are there any fires to put out?

This is also a good time to share studio news, celebrate high points or grumble about challenges, and to show work or share inspiration.

## Sprint planning
We plan sprints every two weeks or as necessary for a project.

## Call-free Wednesdays

We observe call-free Wednesdays, which means that we keep Wednesdays free of client calls, video chats, and meetings in the studio. That leaves us with a full midweek day for heads-down work.

## Rumors Fridays

The first Friday of every month is “investment time,” a concept borrowed from [Thoughtbot](https://thoughtbot.com/). We use this day for professional development, studio operations, planning, and culture, internal projects, field trips, and community participation. We meet quarterly on a Rumors Friday to discuss progress toward internal projects and goals.

## Calendar

Every three weeks or so we block out four to six weeks of work at a high level, project by project, on the big calendar we keep on the whiteboard. Meetings and such go into the shared Google calendar.

## Meetings and calls

We use Skype, Google Hangouts, or Slack calls for remote client meetings — it depends on the client. Meetings should be under an hour and should have a purpose and an agenda, even a simple one. Send a calendar invite for meetings. If someone is working remotely, conduct standup on a Slack call.

## Slack

We use Slack as an internal communication tool to chat about projects, studio news, and other stuff.

Star client channels to add them to an alpha-sorted list at the top of the sidebar. Other channels, like #music and #plants, live in a stack below.

At the onset of a project we'll set up a channel for that client. (Or un-archive a channel if we’ve worked with them previously.) Here are some of the ways we use client channels in Slack:

- Talk specifically about project details — hash out questions, report on progress, note client communication
- Ask for help or feedback on a technical detail
- Post links to relevant documentation, notes, something you want someone to review
- Note small updates or quick changes to the project (then file in GitHub issues)

Don’t `@` mention other coworkers outside of working hours. If someone shares something off hours, there is no expectation that you will respond.

## Email

Email can take up a lot of time. We use it to communicate with clients, rarely internally. Unless it is an emergency, we respond to client communication within a day or two — not instantaneously.

[← Back to the Handbook](../README.md)
