# Process overview


- We discover what we can about a potential project, but avoid writing a detailed proposal or statement of work. At this point, too much is unknown. We don’t want clients to be tied to our very early understanding of a project, as we inevitably uncover new and interesting ideas and requirements. This flexibility allows us to field requests and accommodate changes as the project progresses.
- At a project's onset, we hold a [kickoff meeting](kickoff.md), ideally on-site, with the client, to determine project priorities and outcomes. After the kickoff meeting, we may engage in [strategy](discovery-research-strategy.md) and planning sessions, [stakeholder interviews](stakeholder-interviews.md), [research](discovery-research-strategy.md), and exploratory [design](design.md).
- Deliver a strategic brief outlining our findings and recommendations, and a roadmap for project completion. The roadmap covers the overall trajectory of goals, initiatives, and possible releases for a digital product. Some projects end there, others go on with further strategy, design, and development work.
- Plan our work in sets of two-week cycles, or sprints, which have stated goals, desired outcomes, and balanced sets of work based on client and user priorities. We work with clients to determine our outlook two sprints at a time, using the roadmap and any changing client priorities to guide us. At the end of a two-week sprint, we’ll show our work. We continue in this way until the we’ve met the budget, reached a desired milestone, or the client says stop. A sprint can be focused on [strategy](discovery-research-strategy.md), [design](design.md), or [development](development.md). 
- At the project’s conclusion, we [hand off](handoff.md) assets, deliverables, and the code repository. We also conduct a project [retropective](retrospective.md) internally and with the client, so we can learn what we did well and where we can improve.
