# Process

We strive to be honest, communicative, and easy to work with. We value collaboration, and work in dialog with clients as equal participants. Our process is context-specific — a publication redesign requires a different approach than a digital strategy — flexible in methodology, rigorous in design.

- We discover what we can about a potential project, but avoid writing a detailed statment of work. At this point, too much is unknown. We don’t want clients to be tied to our very early understanding of a project, as we inevitably uncover new and interesting ideas and requirements. This flexibility allows us to field requests and accommodate changes as the project progresses.
- Hold a kickoff meeting, ideally on-site, with our client, to determine project priorities and outcomes. After the kickoff meeting, we may engage in strategy and planning sessions, stakeholder interviews, research, and exploratory design.
- Deliver a strategic brief outlining our findings and recommendations, and a roadmap for project completion. The roadmap covers the overall trajectory of goals, initiatives, and possible releases for a digital product. Some projects end there, others go on with further strategy, design, and development work.
- Plan our work in sets of two-week cycles, or sprints, which have stated goals, desired outcomes, and balanced sets of work based on client and user priorities. We work with clients to determine our outlook two sprints at a time, using the roadmap and any changing client priorities to guide us. At the end of a two-week sprint, we’ll show our work. We continue in this way until the work is done, we’ve met the budget, or the client says stop. A sprint can be focused on strategy, design, or development. 
- At the project’s conclusion, we hand off assets, deliverables, and the code repository. We also conduct a project retropective with the client, so we can learn what we did well and where we can improve.